Video Title: AI inside Blender - And it’s Open-Source
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TGnnIMzJ49M
Transcript generated by YouTube Transcript Generator - Extract transcripts from any YouTube video instantly at https://transcriptgenerator.org

========================================

Right now you can connect your AI agent to Blender with plugin and MCP, but what if we put AI right inside to get access to all core possibilities of Blender?
Well, someone actually did that. They actually made fork of Blender and made it AI first, and that works surprisingly well. You can actually test it for free right
now, and it's open sourced, which is amazing. I was playing with this tool for a while now, and let me show you what it can do. We're gonna do some
complex tests, including test with Fable 5, which is just good back. And I'm also gonna show you the whole workflow in what's new in this AI Blender. So the tool name
is Mixar, and it is essentially the fork of Blender 5 .0, which is great, but this time the team behind it put a lot of effort into it, and they
rework quite a lot. I'm gonna show you the interface, what's new, how it works, etc, but first let's do some quick test. My favorite test is baking, because I don't
like to do baking manually. And here I have I poly and low poly character, and in one prompt I ask it to bake all parts,
and I want to bake ambient occlusion map and normal map notes. I do not provide any detail about baking settings, so I was curious to see if it's gonna figure it
out or not, because when I was testing it through MCP, this process usually takes long. And the first thing I noticed is that it works way faster
than with MCP, and it doesn't do too much or checks, or maybe it actually does in the background, but at least in Blender what you can see is that this
green animation, saying that something is cooking, and also it prevents some action, so you cannot really change anything. While it's cooking you can explore everything, you
can go check select objects, like do some renames even, but they prevent you from interrupting the process, if you not do that through the chat,
which is actually makes sense. And the result for one prompt was absolutely amazing, first of all it did all the parts, it has somehow succeed
with the settings, so you can see the maps that it baked. It was not 100 % perfect, but again like baking in Blender is not the easiest thing,
so what was wrong is that the distance I think should be adjusted a little bit, and again my parts was a little bit too close, but overall that was like 95
% there in just one prompt, without even giving too much details. I was fairly excited and I did more complex baking tests, but first let me
give you a quick tour what is this about. So you install it like you install Blender, and basically that is Blender. You can open any
Blender file here. It looks like this, and first thing we can see that there's a mood board and the queue, and there will be a wheelchair explaining that this is
a simple mode, what they call Zen mode, but you have all Blender functionality here if you click the engine mode. If you click the engine mode,
basically this is the complete Blender 5 .0, but it does have some new stuff, such as mood board, which I think Blender need to immediately steal because
this is absolutely genius thing. So you basically can just drag and drop images here and work with this canvas, and there are a lot of features also right here
in this mood board that allow you to work together. And here is your chat. Basically they call it mixing, they can make it smaller bigger, and yeah if you
select something, it automatically adds to the chat, but you also make sense, no control copy, etc. So first about agent, agent does everything, it can control all the
stuff. Separately you can access different type of generation, they are also available here in the mood board, we're gonna go over, and also there's an ask mode,
but again I think you can just keep the agent that's more than enough. That's how I did the test, it works pretty fine. And the good thing
in agent is always on top, so you will not really miss it, but if you miss it you can click this open mixy here. Now in the mood board,
we can see image generation, right? So like it just type a prompt, or you can even like select and use some images for image editing, etc. Right now they do
have only Gemini, which is Nana Banana, and I'm pretty much agree that's enough. For image 2 3D, we do have triple -roading Hunyun, there is basic and pro version,
basically allow multi -view. There is Britsipology, Britsipology can do with triple or Hunyun, very nice to have it here, and there is Generate Scene, which I'm gonna show you later in
the video, I was really surprised that they actually made it work. The idea is that you drop an image, extract parts, and it helps you to combine it all together,
particularly with the case of rooms and some stuff like that. I did big test, I'm not sure what they use inside, I guess there's some smart segmentation, but it really
worked out. Then we have PBR map generator, that's fine, segmentation, block out, and queue. In queue, I'm gonna see all the generation tasks, such as image, 3D, scene,
etc. And essentially that's it, and that's already a lot. One last thing that here you can access your accounts, so you can use mixer subscription here, or
you can actually connect your API key and there are plenty of models that support it. You can open the API key, Gemini, Anthropic, and I was surprised to see
Secana, so Secana is an orchestrator model that shows results better than Fable 5. Well, that's the benchmarks, that's what they say, so very interesting. And of course I
did some tests with Fable 5 to compare, but Fable 5 is crazy expensive. Now here's one of the coolest tests that I did, and guys, this was made
from first recording, I'm telling you. So, I had this character that I created for another video, and I wanted to do more complex, I mean, since it does so
great job in baking, I wanted to escalate it a little bit, how about we take all these more than 10 pieces of armor, again, each piece here I have a texture.
So what I ask of it, I want you to bake it in one mesh, everything, basically join mesh, one map, one texture, one UV, and see if it actually can
manage that. And in just few minutes, it managed to do that. Now what's important to know is that this test was made with free version. I still don't
have subscription, and there is no Fable 5, that's just the basic model that they have, and it seems that with all the harness that they build around it,
it does like really good job. So it baked me like the complete texture, actually it baked all things into color texture, and then I actually decided to go a bit
wild. I saw it made UV, but it re -unropped it with smart UV projection. That's not a great thing because there's a lot of objects. So I asked
it, can you not use smart UVs, basically do the same thing again, but not use smart UV, instead, can you just pack the UVs that already existed? I think they were
packed better. And you can see like one short prompt, not much of details, and it did the re -baking and it became so much better. Look
at this map, yeah, I mean, like that's again 10 pieces, more than 10 pieces, words, the resolution now fits nicely, but we can take it even further. Right now it
bakes everything, all information in one color map. The next prompt I asked is that, fine, I'm happy with UV, how about we bake normal metallic and roughness because there was
such maps, and they were actually giving like this nice effect. And yes, it did all the job. So now what you see, I have one object,
one 4k texture, like color, metallic, roughness, and normal. And to be honest, I was trying to do similar tests with blender and cp and cloud code, and that
was not really working, not to say it was taking way more time. And since everything is so nice and working, how about we also ask to do the LEDs? I remember
someone in the comments was asking to do that test. Let's do that test. So here's my prompt, right? I will say the current one is LED zero and
I need two more LEDs, right? Again, I was doing the same prompts with mcp and it was not always working from first try. I'm going to ask
to reduce geometry and reduce the maps. So 4k original map, LED1, 2k, LED2, 1k. Again, that's just a test, you can adjust the values better. And here's everything
done, it's time to review the results. And the results are absolutely great. So LED2, you can see, it keeps the shape, decimated. I also checked
the texture resolution. It was exactly as it should be. And you can see the shader, everything connected, all maps are created. And later when I actually
wanted to save the file, it suggested like 52 new textures created. So whatever they did inside, it works. And as I said, again, it's open source. You can
actually check what's inside. You can play with cloud inspected or even make it a better version. I also did one more test with this model. And this time I
asked it to create a tune shader with a white outline for my object. And again, one thing to highlight within this environment, this harness, it is way faster than through mcp.
Again, I don't really know the details, what's inside, but I really appreciate this speed. And that was really easy to test. And a little bit about compatibility. Again, you can pretty
much import drag and drop any blend file here. Even 5 .1 version will work here. And for the saving, they use internal format called nixar. But don't
worry, you can also export it blend. For example, you need to give someone who only work with blender. So in this case, they did really great job making
this tool compatible with any other software. Huge like for that. Now, before I show you the complete workflow with that mood board, part distractions, scene combining, one more
test with animation. So we have this keyboard and there's like two objects, buddy, and keys. And we ask to make the animation like keys, drops with some
nice animation of bounce. And it also needs to split it. I did that test with Claude, mcp. And that time again, I had to do two prompts. One prompts did
the good job. And the second prompt actually to fix it. So here, the first test that you're going to see is with the free model. And in just three minutes,
here's the result. And that is actually a pretty decent result. Super happy. For free. Absolutely like. Now I plugged Fable 5 to see if Fable 5 will actually
do better job with the animation. Well, to be honest, I added a little bit to the prompt. I asked it to make it cooler than I even asked and see
if it will do some stuff. And indeed, Fable 5 started to add some interesting details. Like for example, initial state of keys, they were a little
bit rotated. And with Fable 5, I saw it actually checked some time frames. And also it added additional bounce afterwards, which was just amazing. Boom, boom, boom. Wow. I
did one additional prompt to not show keys before we have the buddy drop. That was just one small thing to show you a nice final result. And
you can also see how many key frames it did, like, oh, quite a lot. That is absolutely cool. Well, Fable 5 is really amazing, but it's also very expensive.
However, there is things like Sakenna and there's Sonnet 5. So I think they will be also achieving pretty much the same results with much cheaper price. Now, let me
show you how complete workload using Mixar can be with using most of the tools that they created. So I think like creating a room or will be the
best example because they do have this scene generation. So I want to show you, right? So we're gonna drop an image of a bedroom to the mood board. And first thing
is to create some additional references that we're gonna use for later details distraction. I really like that ease of use that you can click on the image on the
mood board. And that will instantly appear in the chat. You can select multiple image, any node, such as generation image, also automatically uses that. So you are saving quite a
lot of time. And as much as I like CLI such a slot code, I'm always struggling with one thing there is like how to drop like images there. You
cannot copy paste image here. I mean, here of course you can do that. You can do that with desktop code code. But what if I use to
CLI version? And here I just ask an agent like basically extract me the object from my image. And well, it does all the job. You can always click on the queue
to see what's actually happening. Like what are you waiting? Like some extraction. There is image2 3D and image generation both separated. Take always can keep track of it.
And it also created the objects for me right away. Agent can ask you questions time to time and what I like and gives you some options to answer just
to save your time. It's not something special. It's just a good practice. And overall my feedback after using this tool was that it is actually smooth. And I
don't know, I'm a blender user, right? And for me this tool was like very easy to use. Like you use all the controls and stuff. And I
think they sort of made blender beginner friendly. Again, you still have complete blender functionality. You can even install some additional plugins here like that's basically
a blender with AI layer. And that AI layer has deep access to all the blender functionality, which is absolutely great. And also these agents can do better understanding
on the space. But what was very surprising for me is that it was able to build an accurate room. It also generated textures for walls, floor, and
other stuff. But most impressing thing probably for me was that it placed most of the objects very accurately in the scene in terms of location. Yeah, of course
I had to go over and switched manually, but I really went just like scale and rotation. Like conceptually it did really, really good job compared to MCP approach. I was
actually thinking if this also can be connected like to one agent, like so do agents working together. And as I said, you can actually use it for free.
Just install it. You're gonna have free account with white generous free subscription. Link with some additional benefits will be in the description or you can check it on
the GitHub or use with your API key. And here's one more cool example from developers. How can be used again like extracting some parts, keeping a mood board
and basically providing a plan. And it is able to follow the plan. And that's absolutely cool. And that's it for now. And let me know in the comments
what you think about this tool. That was Steph. Like and subscribe. Bye.