Video Title: Claude Took Over Comfy + Blender: Here's What Happened
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KdYv_TT-ZnQ
Transcript generated by YouTube Transcript Generator - Extract transcripts from any YouTube video instantly at https://transcriptgenerator.org

========================================

I connected Claude to my blender and comfy eye and built a local 3D AI pipeline in no [music] time. In this video, we are going to let Claude generate images, 3D models, and even animate characters all for free by using tools like trellisto, kimodo, and the image that are all open source and free
to use. How well it actually did and how useful Claude is in an actual 3D pipeline, we are going to find out in today's video. Hey guys, welcome back to the channel as always. My name is Philip from Pixel Artistry and today we are going to have a look at Claude and how we can connect it to comfy eye and
blender. And why am I even showing you this? Well, because there are some really cool use cases how we can use Claude in combination with blender and comfy eye to then, for example, clean up your 3D AI models, also batch generate complete asset sets, and as well how you can use, for example, the kimodo blender
add-on to then use Claude to control basically the animations, generate them, and then automatically retarget them to your character. I think using agents is also kind of the future when it comes to 3D AI generation. To get started, we of course need to first go ahead with the setup. And this is actually easier than
you might think. So, we have a big advantage because blender is already kind of integrated with Claude, which is really cool because we have a really nice MCP there now that we can use. So, you will see that we have here the blender MCP server side and you will also notice we just have some basic
requirements for it. You need to use blender 5.1 or newer that you can then also directly download here from the link. I will also put you the link down below in the description. And the only thing basically to make this work in blender is that you need to drag and drop this add-on into blender, or you
can also download it in case you would like to by clicking here and then you will be able to download it here when you click on [music] this button over here. I have this already set up on my blender, but you can always check once you have done the installation basically to check that it worked for you is that
you go here to edit preferences. Then you can go to add-ons and type [music] in MCP and then when you see here the MCP checked, then everything is working for you already. And make sure that your MCP server is running in Blender. That's already for the Blender part, so quite easy. Now let's check also how we can
set up ComfyUI and of course Claude itself as well. So for ComfyUI, there's also a really cool ComfyUI MCP available that you can also download for free on GitHub. I will also put you as always all links down below in the video description. So of course you will need to have ComfyUI installed. I would
recommend for also the further use cases I'm going to show you [music] is to use the ComfyUI easy install installation. You will also see that you need here to add the MCP server to your Claude config. So what we can do is basically [music] open Claude desktop. It's really easy to set it up. So make sure that you
have this also installed and that what you can do is to simply click on the three little dots over here, go to file and settings, and then what you can do here is that you then go to developer mode over here, and then you can click here on edit [music] config. And this will then already guide you to your
roaming Claude folder. In case this is not working for you, you can also navigate to your folder by going to your app data location where you have installed Claude desktop. And once you're here, you will then see there is a Claude desktop config.json. You can then right click it and for example then
either >> [music] >> edit in notepad or you can also open Visual Studio which I have installed. And you will already see that I have added here on the top then this code that we saw here. You just need to copy it over here, then go back to your
window, and then basically you can put it here right [music] on the top. You can then go to file, save, and that is all you need basically. Make then sure to restart Claude, and then there's only one more thing to do, and this is also very easy. So you go to file settings again. We go to develop, then you go to
extensions, then you go to browse extensions, and then you can search here, for example, in here for Blender. I did this already, and once you have this installed and set up, it will then also show up here on the developer side, basically. And this is all you need basically to get started. Make sure when
you then using ComfyUI and Blender, of course, that you have both instances running because otherwise, obviously, Claude can't access it. Just to make sure that it's running, what you can do is, of course, testing it with the famous Blender cube. So, we can, for example, then say something like delete
[music] the cube in the scene and create a new one and call it test succeeded. And then you can enter this one and then just check if Claude will recognize, basically, the scene and will be able to access this or not. Claude will also tell you this in case it doesn't, but
you will see here that, you know, it recognizes that there is a cube, actually, and also will rename the cube then to test succeeded, as you can see here. So, we have successfully renamed our Blender cube. All right, guys. So, first example I want to show you is, basically, how you can use Claude in
combination with ComfyUI and Blender to create multiple assets at once with a local approach and in our local 3D air pipeline. To get started, it's really important that, of course, you have ComfyUI running and, of course, that you have the workflows set up and made sure that they work locally. So, here we are
using the image, which doesn't need any crazy installation, and you will find it by going to template and then just typing in here the image Turbo text-to-image. Just make sure that you have all models downloaded here and that it's set up. Same thing actually then for Trellis 2, which we are going to use
for the 3D asset generation. Here I can highly recommend you to check out my Trellis 2 GT AF video, which guarantees you the fastest generation in Trellis 2, and this is, of course, especially great when you generate multiple prompts and so on. And once you have set this up and Claude basically knows the environment
already, is that you go to ComfyUI file, and then make sure that you click here on export API. In case you don't see that option, don't worry. You can go here to settings, and then just make sure that you [music] saying here API nodes, and then make sure that this one is enabled. And this will then enable
Claude basically to read the workflow much easier and faster, so you can then click here on export API. Make sure that you naming this then for example image the image turbo [music] API, and then we can basically drag and drop this file here with our ComfyUI workflow inside of it. And then we can tell Claude
something like read this workflow JSON and make it ready, so you can use it in connection with the ComfyUI MCP. And this is what we are going to do with every workflow, so you can also drag and drop this inside for the Trellis 2 one. So you can do here basically same procedure, just go to file and export
API. And these are basically the only two workflows you need. You can of course also disable here the texturing in case you don't need the texturing itself yet, and just would like to create the models in a batch. So just make sure to export this one here as well, and then to also drag and drop it
in here. And then we can also say read this read these ComfyUI workflows JSON and make it ready, so you can use it in connection with the ComfyUI MCP. And then we are all set to start our generation. Okay, and now we are finally set to generate our asset [music] kit basically. So what I'm going to prompt
for Claude is that I'm saying here something like build me a medieval kit consisting of 10 different props for a game level. Use the image turbo for the image generation, so the workflow we just uploaded, and Trellis 2 GGF locally for the asset generation. Afterwards it should make sure then to import them all
into Blender and then to arrange them [music] into a game level. And then just make sure to hit enter and then let it run basically. This will take definitely quite a while, but I mean the great thing is you can now lean back into your chair or get a coffee or something like this. Just make sure that you allow
ComfyUI desktop basically to access those files. So, first step is that it's then going to create you 10 different props basically that you can [music] see here. So, it did a really nice job, you know, with the image basically to create this TV collection of objects. You can, for example, then of course also use
LoRAs to customize the style and then it then really gets the look of your game or 3D scene that you would like to create or looking for. And then it will generate all those assets, first the images. And the cool thing is Cloud will then automatically recognize that [music] it needs to upload those images
and convert them them into a 3D model. So, you can see then here basically once you generated your first model, that it actually is able to import it directly into Blender. You will see it also has the textures that we generated in ComfyUI with [music] the Trellis to workflow. And you can then also see here
that it's then going on with all the other assets as well. It will always keep you posted about the progress it made so far and also if it stumbled upon some issues it might has, but most of the times it will fix that itself while generating. And after I let it run even longer, you will see that it then
generates after each other more and more assets into the shot. And we can then also start to assemble them by scaling them and then placing them into the scene as we would like to. So, once I had then assembled them, you will see that the texture of the ground is quite blurry and really not that high quality.
So, let's fix this as well. And for this one we can then use, for example, Trellis Splat, which is focused on Gaussian Splat. So, we are going to open ComfyUI for this again or in case you have it running, you can still use this one. Then make sure that you go here to the template section and then just
search for tree plus plat. In case you don't see it here, just make sure that you are really on the latest comfy eye version. And then you can click on it and here same procedure as with the other workflows, we would go then here to file export as API again, feed it then back into cloud and then say that
it should generate the ground for us and import it and you can see that it did that here. So basically I then positioned it here and you can then, you know, further adjust your ground and see what works for you and your scene basically. This is of course just one example of many how you can use this
approach. Next up, I also wanted to show you a quick way because I see this all over the place in the comment section is how to clean up your 3D air model. And for this one, there's a really powerful approach how we can also use cloud code for this. So I imported here our beloved monster that you might remember also
from the trellis to GGF video and some other past videos. And what we can do now is basically that I want to show you is how we can get rid of this ugly wireframe that we have here. So we will basically create a low poly model out of this and then bake the texture onto it, but we will let cloud do this instead
that we have to do it because sometimes there's still issues with baking and cloud is really good at doing this. So I prompted them something like let's clean up the mesh I just imported in blender and do then the following. So you can give it then some instructions it should do. So basically for example then to
merge the vertices as usual with 3D air modified then also to fix the scaling. We can then also use for example the add-on quad re-mesher for the re-topology that you can see here. I will also link it you down below and you can then also install it for blender because I'm going to then basically say
make a low poly version using quad re-mesher and bake then the texture from high to low poly model. And the big advantage is here that of course it will do that on this model, but it will also store it in memory for you guys. So, basically, you can then load in any model you would like to and Cloud will
then remember the steps for you, which is of course really cool. So, Cloud will handle that then for you. And then, after some minutes, you will see that Cloud is basically creating here a retopo geometry. You will also notice it has no texture yet, and it will then further iterate on the model. It asked
me here also if you would like to bake normal and base color. So, I said, "Yes, let's definitely do it because normal map is always great to have." And then, basically, once it's done with the baking, you will see that we have our retopo geometry, and you can also see that we then have here our new
wireframe. Something that might happen, for example, here is with the eye, but this more an issue of quad remesher. So, just make sure then to remesh again, or you can fix it also, of course, by hand, which is way faster because I tried it here to do it with Cloud, but there it uh get really into an endless loop. So,
I can recommend doing that just by hand, which might be faster. Okay, guys, and we are not done yet because I wanted to show you also how you can use Kinetix in Blender. Kinetix I showed in a previous video. It's basically a text-to-animation generator, where you can basically create animations via text
prompt. And the great thing is we can use this setup basically to then connect it with a new Blender add-on that popped up like just a few days ago. As you can see here, Kinetix Blender Bridge. And this one is actually working surprisingly well. So, you can first download it, and then of course, we will
go back into Blender, where you can then set it up. For example, create here a new scene, or use the existing one. And then, as with the MCP server, we need to install the Blender add-on, and to do that is then again, it will be explained here on the page, on the GitHub page, and you can install the add-on quite
easily by going here to edit, preferences, and [music] then clicking here on the little arrow that you have over here. Then you can go to install from disk and here you can then select basically the Kimodo Blender Bridge add-on, the zip file basically, and then make sure to install from disk. And once
you have that, you can then check again by going here and searching for Kimodo Blender Bridge and here it should then show up. And once you have that, make sure to restart Blender and then when you hit N again, it should here show up under Kimodo. What we need to do then is because you will see you have two
options. So, you can basically install it here. So, per order click, but this might take more VRAM than what I showed you last time because this is as far as I understood it, it's taking the default version, which taking more VRAM. So, in case you have a strong graphic card, you can of course use this one. Or in case
you have followed my previous video about Kimodo and how to run it on 6 GB of VRAM, you can also use here the Kimodo Python path basically. And we give it then the path to our virtual environment where we installed it and then you can put this in here and then you can basically use Kimodo already.
So, in case you have it installed, you can directly use this basically already, which is amazing. In case you are on an older version, then also make sure to delete those folders here and make sure to run them again just to be sure that you are on the latest version because for me it happened I was in an older
version and the Blender add-on was not working. And once you run those files and have it set up, you will then find here a VM folder, which is your virtual environment. And here you can then copy the path going back then to the Blender add-on and then just paste it in here. Basically, all you need to do is then
hitting here start Kimodo. When everything is working correctly, it will then start to import Kimodo. And then in case everything loaded up correctly, you will see here that it's saying ready, Kimodo and then the version. And this basically enables you then to use the Kimodo add-on with only 6 GB of VRAM
directly in Blender. And I mean, how cool is that? So, first of all, we need to generate our character for our workflow. So, in this case, I'm not using Trello, but I'm using Rodin Gen 2.5, which is also today's sponsor of the video. And Rodin is especially great to create this hero characters basically
that you will need for your shots because a Rodin is actually able to create in under 4 seconds basically a model with 1 million polys and more and it can even go up to more than 10 million polygons on skin level micro detail, for example. It also has some great options such as smart low poly
mode, which we are going to use in a second, as well as for example great features such as 12K texturing and 3D native texturing. So, the texture will basically cover it from all angles without any blind spots and it will guarantee you basically higher geometry quality, more faithful textures, and
faster batches. So, you can also batch multiple assets like I just showed you also with Rodin in an even faster way. So, to do that is basically that you go here to the Rodin website and we can then upload here our reference image. I'm then choosing here for example this character skeleton that I would like to
generate and you will see we even have here multi-view, which is great. So, you can use that to really have a precise generation. Once you uploaded a new image, you can also choose here basically the thinking effort it should do. So, for example in the extreme high, it will guarantee you the best results,
but it will also take the most time, but you can also basically decide here how long your model should take. This is of course really cool because this gives us the control back to really make sure that we get the result we need basically for our project, which is of course great. So, I'm going to choose here the
high mode, which takes around 40 seconds. And once it's done, you will see that we get here a really cool defined model already. And we then have different options because we can in the editor in Rodin already then, you know, re-topologize our character. So, you could then choose the smart low poly
mode that they newly introduced, but you could also use the quad mesh mode or triangle mode, whatever makes sense for you. Then, you can click here on confirm, and then you can generate the mesh. What is also incredibly useful is that Rodin has this Blender add-on that you can also directly install here when
you enable it, and then you can click here on install basically to then install it, and then you can directly generate your assets also in Blender, which makes the process even easier, and then you can also connect it to cloud, for example. And then, once we re-topologized, you will see that we
then have here our preview, and we can then also create our material. Once done, we can then also have a quick look at the wireframe. So, basically, this is what Rodin generates for us, which is way better than, you know, using it's [music] just simple quad re-mesher in Blender. So, definitely cool to see
that, and you can use, of course, also the smart low-poly that you have. And also, of course, their auto bang to parts feature, which will split your model into parts in case you uh prefer that, and you will see that we then have here our re-topologized model [music] in quads, basically. And then, we can also
go back to our shaded result, and you will see that we get here really defined PBR textures with all sides covered, and we have some really nice texture detail. And once we have our model then here generated, we can then choose, for example, directly GLB, choose here our texture size, and then hit download or
directly send it here to Sketchfab uh or Blender, even. Then, you can click here on download. I can highly recommend you check out Rodin for you, and also their 3D AI generator. They also have some other really cool tools, such as an HDRI generation, a texture generator, and much more, and even offer like image to
video and a video generator itself. So, in case you are interested in checking out Rodin yourself, you will find a direct link with a discount code right down below in the video description. So, definitely make sure to check that out, and thanks again, Rodin, for sponsoring this video. And once we have done our
character downloaded from Rodin, we then obviously need to rig it so before we can animate it so for this one I'm using here ComfyUI Skin Token as well which I showed you in my last video which is a really fast way to rig your character because it will recognize your pose and then will generate a rig from that so
you will just need to set it up and then you can launch it in ComfyUI and then start it basically and just wait for it to finish. Here you could do of course the same thing again uploading it to Cloud and then let Cloud do the work for you and that it's on a memory for Cloud. I'm just did it here by hand quickly to
demonstrate how it's working and then once done you will see that we have here our rig and it will then be saved into our output folder and then once imported into Blender you will basically see that we are then have here our character. We can then opening a clean new Cloud window and now we are then finally ready
basically to then use Kimodo in combination with Blender and Cloud. So I will prompt you something like use the Kimodo add-on in my running Blender and generate five different animations, duplicate and afterwards the character five times and retarget the Kimodo skeletons to the rigged characters by
using the Rokoko add-on. In case you don't have Rokoko installed I also showed this in my previous video I will also link it for you down below it's quite set forward as with the Kimodo Blender add-on. So basically do the same thing there and then you have it set up already and then Cloud will start by
inspecting the Blender scene we check out all the add-ons and the Kimodo add-on and then basically you can go then from here because what the Kimodo add-on is doing is basically generating all those skeletons that you can see here because Kimodo will actually after you set it here to 30 FPS and you click
here on motion segments it will then generate you a animation based on your prompt so you can say something like a person walks forward and then you launch it here which is Cloud doing by the way in the in the background right now. Kimoto will basically generate all those skeletons with the prompt that you can
see here. So, because Claude will, for example, generate emotions like jumping, a person walks forward, and so on. And this is really cool because it will come up with different animations for you and then also retarget them directly with the Rokoko add-on. And then once generated, you will see we then have
multiple motions here with all our characters and basically all our duplicated characters with the different motions. So, you can basically play them then and see what worked and what not. On some you will notice that the arms might still crash into it, but that was also more of a problem because our
character was not standing in a perfect T-pose, but you can also fix this, for example, then putting some basic keys on the arms to to fix that motion. But here in this example, it worked quite well. And for the other ones, you can then also let Claude, for example, do it that it fixes the hands with a simple prompt
or you [music] do it yourself by just selecting the bones in the rig and then fixing it basically with some simple keyframes. So, what are my thoughts about Claude and why did I show you this? Well, because I think there are definitely use cases already where you can use Claude to your advantage. One
thing I have to mention is, of course, that the generation time could take quite long and also to iterate. So, it's definitely more worth it when you don't have that much time or would like to test with Claude what could work for you, you know, or that you build your own pipeline basically by feeding Claude
more and more information that it will remember that for the next time you're using it. But I think it's definitely impressive to see and cool to show. Only thing you need is basically Claude installed. Let me know what you think about Claude and if you have used it already. You can also, of course, use
Claude always for like debugging technical things and installation issues, which I always recommend to do because Claude is quite good at it. By the way, guys, in case you enjoyed this video, make sure to like the video and subscribe to the channel. This would help me tremendously to do what I do and
to continue to deliver you great tutorials, hopefully.